Hi, welcome back.
In this video, we're looking at using SQLite
from within Python.
And it's really straightforward.
For Python comes with SQLite already installed
as a package and all you have to do is import SQLite3.
Open up a Python file, write import SQLite3,
and run that file.
If it all works and you don't get any errors,
you're good to go.
If it fails and you get some sort of margin not found error
or an import error, it's possible
that your Python installation has been made lighter
so that it takes up less space
in your computer and so forth.
In that case I have to recommend that you find a way
to instal SQLite3 or you reinstall Python 3.6 or later
in your computer so that it comes with SQLite3.
This normally will only happen
on some very specific operating systems.
Now once you're imported SQLite3,
you can easily connect to a local database.
That's how you do it - you do SQLite3.connect
and then as a string, you give it the data file.
Remember this is going to be single file letters
going to contain all, your entire, SQLite database.
The file is normally named data.db,
that's just the convention.
You can name it whatever you want, of course.
And always after we finish with a connection
remember to close the connection.
Does it remind you of something?
I hope it reminds you of files or it looks pretty similar.
Okay.
So after you've got the connection,
you will want to get a cursor for that connection
that's there in line three.
You can see that cursor equals connection.cursor
and that gives you a new cursor that you can use
to execute SQL Querys.
I'm going to explain exactly what a cursor is
in the next video so don't worry.
Once you've executed your SQL Query,
you can commit the connection.
And what that's going to do is it's going
to save the contents of whatever changes you've made
to the disc.
I'm going to explain that in the next video as well.
But this is a pretty normal flow
for SQLite Querys being executed.
You get your cursor, you run your Query with a cursor,
and then you commit the connection and you close it after.
So a few questions, of course.
What is a cursor?
What is commit?
And how do we write SQL?
We're going to look at these three questions
in the next video.
So I'll see you there.